Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this election I'd like to talk to you about what an animation actually is.
So obviously some of you will know all about this already.
However for those who don't please listen carefully because important information contained within.
Okay so in front of us here we have a ball and an animation is the illusion of motion by having a series
or a sequence of frames or as in this case a sequence of images that are called frames in an animation
and when we step through these frames it gives you the illusion of motion.
So with this ball that we have here if I go in through and step through this animation you can see the
ball dropped to the ground bounces back up and it repeats.
And we can see at the bottom there is a total of four out of eight frames.
So in this entire animation there are only eight individual images that make up these frames.
And in this particular case because the ball is bouncing up and down I have created this from four individual
frames and then they are mirrored on the way back up again.
And you might have heard the term frames per second whether it be a movie at the cinema at 24 frames
per second or if you're a gamer and you want to get the most out of your games 60 frames per second
and of course it goes up and up from there.
Now in this particular case I can play this back at that Sachse you set it a one time 10 frames per
second and press play.
And we can see what it looks like at 10 frames per second.
And it does look like a bouncing ball and it is quite incredible how only eight frayne's can create
an illusion that this ball is bouncing up and down.
Now there are some other things going on in this scene as well which will discuss in more detail as
we get deeper into this section.
But you can see there that looks like a bouncing ball.
Now the number of frames you have is directly related to the speed of the animation.
So not only can you change the number of frames per second but you can also have a different number
of frames.
I'm just going to stop this for the moment because it's rather distracting whilst I'm talking to you
now with these frames per second if you have more frames you can either have a slower animation or a
more detailed or smoother animation.
Now because this only contains eight frames if I chose to go a bit crazy and turn it up to 60 frames
per second it would just as you can see there look a bit blurred more than anything else and difficult
to work out.
The fact that this only has eight individual images in it would suggest in this case with a bouncing
ball that is to be played back at a lower frames per second rather than at this higher rate of course
the more frames per second to try and play your animation back if we rewind the clock there you may
find that means that you have to spend a lot more time animating it.
So in many cases especially when you try a prototype something perhaps something moving or in this case
a ball bouncing having the minimum number of frames to give the illusion of motion providing someone
who didn't know what you were doing turns around says that looks like a red bouncing ball.
Well that is your task completed at this point obviously.
Later Ron you may be required or you may want to increase the level of detail in the image or even increase
the level of detail of the animation itself.
At this point in time of course we are more focussed on learning the key skills required to do that
animation rather than refining it.
At this point in time.
Okay now that we have a grasp of what animation actually is in the next lecture will be applying that
knowledge and creating our very first animation over in guimpe.
And oh see you in that next lecture.